# insurance-derivatives-loa
Simulation framework of insurance derivatives

Insurance derivatives are very difficult to be presented right in a single model, so for this reason a Systems Dynamics approach with Anylogic was used to gain maximum accuracy.
This model consists of four different parts, which are interconnected and are made up of a number of different variables.
In order to start setting up the cash inflows and outlflows of the insurance company, it is important to quantify by some means the risk of each included party.
This was done by calculating the maximum amount of money that an examined party will lose in case of default of the party that has secured all its assets, which is equal to the total compensation cost that was calculated in the previous step.
Therefore, from the model it can be derived that ReinsuranceRisk is the risk taken by the insurance company in case of the reinsurers’ default, Retrocession is the risk taken by the reinsurers’ in case of SPV’s default and BondCession is the risk taken by the investors in case of SPV’s default.

The next part of the model is to utilize flows provided with System Dynamics in order to quantify the cash inflows and outflows of the insurance company.
Namely, the expenses are consisted of compensation costs, operating costs, investment costs and personell costs. The insurance company’s income comes from written premium, income from reinsurance, unearned premium, income from real estate, income from assets and income from other investments.
More specifically, income from assets can be divided into two groups, the one that has constant yield and the other has variable yield, which are calculated by finding the product of the sum of the available assets and efficiency rate (the mean interest rate of the assets).

Following that, it is important to structure the cash flow loop that is generated by reinsuring and is implemented in the case of medium compensation cost, as it will be seen below.
For this reason, the reinsurance premium flow is used in order to show the amount of money the insurance company gives to the reinsurers so that they could secure the vehicles’ insurance contracts.
This variable depends on the risk that has been calculated in the previous part of the model.
Then, the reinsurers use these money to use them in their fund, which generates a certain amount of interest rate.
After that, the reinsurers give the money that are necessary to the insurance company and the rest of it they keep as profit.

Another important part of insurance derivatives’ simulation is the cash flow loop that is generated by issuing bonds and generally using more complex means of hedging risks from the insurance company, which can be observed in the case of big compensation cost below.
More specifically, the insurance company gives reinsurance premium to lower its risks, which as stated previously depends on the underlying risks that are presented with this transaction.
The reinsurers in their turn provide retro-premium to a Special Puprose Vehicle in order to retrocede their risk of the insurance contracts to them, while, at the same time, investors buy bonds from the Special Purpose Vehicle, thereby increasing the total capital inflow.
As a result, the Special Purpose Vehicle acts as a facilitator between the insurance company, the reinsurers, the investors and the collateral trust, so that the maximum amount of capital is collected in order to increase leverage.
The collateral trust collects capital from the Special Puprose Vehicle and invests these amounts of money. The proceedings are then used to cover all the necessary expenses, such as the collateral costs that are needed to be covered by the insurance company.
Another type of expense are the investors’ bonds, who are compensated fully by depositing the corresponding money to a fiscal agent, such as a bank, where the investors can gain further income from the interest rates that are present there.

Finally, it is important to know that the insurance company gets all the necessary funds from both reinsurance expenses and trust collateral primarily in order to cover all the necessary compensation costs.
In addition to that, there have been created two separate controlling variables that are used later in the optimisation process and serve the purpose of guaranteeing that the cash flows from reinsurers and the trust are always positive.
